And as people are jumping over,
I'll have us introduce ourselves here.
But I can see we just successfully went live.
So let me share the Q&A room again.
Hey everybody, thanks for jumping over here to the Q&A.
We're gonna give people another minute or so
to make sure the redirect worked well for everybody.
But thank you so much, Ryan, for the great demo.
And let's just give people one more minute here.
Is anybody saying, let's see, in the YouTube
that they're not getting pushed over?
Okay, well, I think we can get started
and people will find us over here in the Q&A.
But there were a few great questions
in the YouTube chat already,
but just wanted to remind people
that you can ask questions anonymously as well.
And so you can use this link
that I'll show on the screen here,
pos.it slash demo resources.
But for everybody who just joined us over here in the Q&A,
hi everybody, hope you're having a great Wednesday
and thank you for joining us again.
I guess we could all introduce ourselves over here too.
I'm Rachel, I lead our pro community here at Posit.
Ryan, Katie, Ralph and I are gonna hang out here
for another 15 minutes or so and answer some questions.
But I'll have you all introduce yourselves as well.
Katie, if you wanna go first.
Sure, thanks Rachel.
Hi everybody, I'm Katie Masiello.
I'm on the solutions engineering team at Posit.
And Ralph.
Yeah, thanks.
My name is Ralph Stupner.
I'm also on the solutions engineering team at Posit.
Awesome, and Ryan, I know you introduced yourself before,
but how about again?
Yeah, absolutely.
So I'm Ryan, I'm a data science advisor here at Posit
and I'm the person whose voice you just heard
for the past 20 minutes.
Awesome.
Well, actually this is the first end to end workflow demo
where Ryan and I are in the same room as well.
So it's funny sitting here side by side on the screens,
but let's jump into some questions.
So I see over from YouTube, somebody had asked,
we're thinking about using APIs
and a lot of our data is in Microsoft SQL server.
Would be very interested to hear what are advantages
of using APIs over using stored procedures?
Yeah, I can probably start on that
and then maybe Katie and Ralph,
if you have any other additional comments,
but really it's gonna differ based on
how your team operates.
So if you have a data in a SQL server
and you can push certain operations to that SQL server
so that it transforms your data, cleans it up,
you pull in the data that you want,
then that's a great solution for your team.
I think APIs in the context we presented it today
as kind of like a data portal, so to speak,
you can do a lot of those same things.
So it's really gonna depend on how your team operates.
If Microsoft SQL works well for you, then that's awesome.
We certainly wouldn't say,
jump ship from that and switch over to an API,
but just know that an API is a data access portal
is a great solution as well.
Katie, Ralph, any of you guys want anything else?
Yeah, maybe one thing is just language familiarity.
So the SQL, the sort of procedure
you would have to write in SQL
and maybe people are familiar
with writing a dplyr pipeline,
but not with writing the appropriate code in SQL.
And that could help with the API,
especially if you combine it then with the dbplyr package,
which automatically translates your dplyr pipeline
to SQL code so that it runs in the database
and is still fast to return the data.
So yeah, it can be interesting
if people are more familiar with R
than with writing SQL code.
Great, thank you.
And just, if anybody just jumped over,
wanted to remind people,
you can ask questions anonymously in this format too.
So if you wanna use this link
that I just shared on the screen,
you can ask questions over on Slido too.
But one question that I did hear,
or not hear, see over on Slido
was would love to hear a bit more about post requests
and how that interacts with local file storage.
So best practices,
well, you can read it there on the screen too.
That is a great question.
So APIs, as I mentioned during my webinar,
I avoided APIs for a very long time
because they scared me.
But I would say over the past year or two
is when I really started to leverage them more
for kind of simple tasks like we talked about today.
It's like a data access.
And so based on my readings,
for data access,
a lot of times we use these kind of post requests
or get requests,
but there's so many other different ways
that you can ping an API.
And depending on what you're receiving,
you may want to adjust kind of what you want to say.
So I know there's a bunch of other options out there
depending on what your API is going to be doing.
And so I would just say,
it might just be worth doing a little bit of research
to make sure that you're using the right type of request
from an API,
depending on how you're interacting with it.
But again, my API knowledge is pretty limited.
So I don't know if Katie or Ralph
have anything else they want to add to that.
Sounds like you got it all.
I apologize if I didn't perfectly answer your question,
but we're certainly happy to talk more about that.
And I see, okay.
So I think we're good on that one.
I see a few other questions coming in on YouTube as well.
And so Tim had asked,
can you share more about tokens?
Are there possibilities to have something set up
so folks outside of our organization can request tokens?
Yeah, and I think there was a similar-ish question
in the chat as well about like authentication for your APIs.
So in the context we presented today, taking an API,
it doesn't have to be a fast API.
It can be a plumber API, it can be a flask API.
And once you publish it to Posit Connect,
Connect essentially allows you
to add an authentication layer to your API
so that it's not just opened up to the world
that anyone can use it.
So in my demo today,
I actually made my API essentially open to anybody.
So if you open up a terminal command line,
or you just call it from our Python code,
you can essentially ping the same API.
But I could very easily, as a publisher
and owner of that piece of content,
I could switch the authentication
so that a user would essentially have to provide an API key
to this API in order to leverage it.
So in combination with Connect,
you can add a layer of authentication to your APIs.
Now, in terms of like these API keys
and sharing with people outside of your institution,
that's probably gonna be a good question
for your account manager in terms of licensing
and how that's gonna work for Posit Team and Posit Connect.
Yeah, and on that point,
probably would be helpful for me to share this link.
If you did have a question for your account team,
I'm just gonna put a short link
to schedule a call with them as well.
So I just share that in the YouTube.
But let me jump over to a few other questions.
Melinda, I see you asked a question over on YouTube.
It was, are there any examples yet
of people publishing datasets in various data repositories
for further query and analysis of published datasets?
Are there any examples yet of people publishing datasets
in various data repositories?
Katie or Ralph, any ideas?
Off the top of my head, I'm not aware of any,
but I'm certain there probably are some.
Yeah, I mean, there are various open data initiatives,
of course, but so far I haven't seen anything standardized.
But quite often then there are packages or Python packages
that you can use to access
these non-standard data repositories.
And if anyone has ideas or links,
feel free to share those in the chat too.
Okay, so another question I see from YouTube was,
could you discuss the pros and cons
of Pins versus FastAPI for Shiny?
Yeah, that's a good question.
And thankfully I'm joined by one of our Pins experts,
Katie, but I can at least talk a little bit about it
and then pass the mic over.
But Pins, and if you actually go back
to our last month's demo, I believe,
we actually talked a little bit more about Pins
and how you can use it.
And we did it in the context of just grabbing a data set
and pulling it into a Corridor document
or a Shiny application, for example.
But Pins, for the most part, they're fairly static.
So you have a data set,
you clean it up using our Markdown or Corridor,
and then you pin it, same way you would pin
or save something to like Dropbox
or Google Drive or something like that.
And once it's there, you can share it,
and that's a great use case.
But a benefit for like FastAPI
is that not only can it serve as like a data portal
for you to get data,
but you can also do things to that data.
And so from our webinar today,
you saw that I pinged the API,
but at the same time, I added some query items.
So I said to API, like, hey, I want the data,
but only give me the data where the rows
are equal to like A, B, and C.
And then I get that data back, so only that data.
So there are ways FastAPI can probably
do a little bit more compute for you.
You can place it into a function in Python and R
and kind of wrap those functions into an API.
A lot of the work you would do in your Shiny application,
you can essentially push to an API.
And that's always a lot of times best practice
when I'm speaking with folks
that have these Shiny applications,
and they're big, they're clunky, they're slow.
I say, you know, if you can take any compute,
anything that doesn't need to be in that Shiny application
and move it to something like an API
or maybe a core to a document scheduled to run or a pin,
just kind of move that stuff outside of the Shiny app,
that typically will set you up for success in the future.
But Katie, Ralph, anything to add?
Yeah, I think that's pretty solid, Ryan.
The big difference that I think of is an API,
whether it's FastAPI, Plumber, right?
It's just a way of wrapping up a function.
So you're doing something.
And in the demo that you did today, right?
Your function was accessing a data frame and filtering it.
But it could be a function that creates a model
or does a coin toss or whatever it is.
And so it's doing a function
and that's just wrapped up as an API.
Whereas a pin is you pin an object,
whether it's a data frame, an image, a list or whatever,
it's an object that's put into a place
where you can share or collaborate
or reuse in different places.
So it's sort of different use cases.
We sort of saw a bit of an intersection today
for the use of sharing data,
but under the hood, just keep in mind that APIs,
you're going to be a bundling up of a function
under the hood.
Thanks, Katie.
I see John asked a question over on YouTube
that said, am I right in thinking this approach
will make it fairly straightforward
to link up-to-date summary info
with something like a React app?
This really helps keep the front-end language agnostic.
Yeah, I would think so.
That's exactly one of the nice use cases for APIs
to have potentially multiple front-ends
for one piece of logic.
Mm-hmm.
Yeah, when I was working on this content,
I was speaking with some folks at Positive,
like, you know, what's really the big thing
that advantage APIs provides?
And it's exactly what Ralph mentioned.
You might have completely different pieces of content.
So we talked about Shiny app in R,
Jupyter Notebook in Python or React app.
It could be something completely different,
but APIs provide that kind of common communication layer
so that it can speak to those functions
that you developed in Python in R or whatever.
So again, I always like to go back
to that restaurant analogy.
So your API is the waiter or waitress
that allows the customers to speak to the chef.
Customers might be from different parts of the world,
speak different languages,
but hopefully your waiter or waitress
can speak those languages and communicate between the chef.
I love that analogy.
Thank you, Ryan.
I did just share in the chat,
but wanted to let everybody know,
listening in the blog post with today's demo
just went live as well.
So you can follow along with all the steps in that too.
Another question that I see over from,
well, this is actually a request.
And so this reminds me to say,
if you do have other requests for different workflow,
end to end workflow demos
or things you'd like to see or curious about,
let us know here in the chat as well.
Is it possible that you could do a tutorial on pins
for artifact data set management?
Yeah, I think some of our previous ones,
we've definitely touched upon pins,
but I think pins is becoming more and more popular.
I think it might be something to do in the future,
a later month demo to really take a deep dive into pins
and what you can really do with it.
So absolutely.
And we're gonna take that feedback
and hopefully we'll get you something in the near future.
I know Katie has some great content on pins as well.
Katie, if you want to point me to those YouTube videos,
I can share them in the chat here too.
I'll go find them, hang on.
Okay, we can put them in the follow-up resources
in the recording as well.
Okay, let me jump over to Slido
to make sure I haven't missed anything
that was asked over there.
But just one more time, as a reminder,
if you did want to ask anything anonymously,
you can always do that too.
I just put the link up on the screen
where you can ask on Slido.
But I'll jump back over to YouTube.
And if I have missed anybody's question from earlier,
feel free to copy that over and share it again
so I see it here.
But while I'm checking,
one question I did have for you all was,
how would you choose which API framework to use?
Yeah.
So I'm an R developer,
more so than I am a Python developer,
but you'll notice today.
If I had to very quickly on the fly create an API,
I would certainly probably try to use Plumber
because that is kind of a wrapper
on the R programming language.
I'm just a little bit more comfortable with that.
But if you're a Python developer,
you may be more comfortable with FastAPI.
So I think the take-home here is that
whatever you're most comfortable leveraging,
you can find a framework for creating APIs.
So Plumber for R, FastAPI, Flask in the Python ecosystem.
And again, you don't have to be a computer scientist
or a software engineer to create these APIs.
You really just need to know a little bit of R
or a little bit of Python to create these APIs.
Thank you, Ryan.
One thing I'll add too,
that both Plumber and FastAPI
provide that built-in Swagger interface,
which is really great.
So you can go in and you can test
and play with and interact with your API.
So that's baked into the framework already.
So it makes it super easy.
Yeah.
I'll also say, this might be a future demo down the line,
but for folks that are doing any type of modeling
and have heard about one of our newest open source tools
called Vetiver.
Vetiver, one of the biggest advantages,
you can take your model
and you can very easily serve it as an API.
Because you create these cool models,
but how do you actually get those models
in the hands of people that need to use it?
Vetiver is a great way to do that.
And it'll actually create a Plumber API
for you automatically.
It's really pretty slick.
So I think that'll be a future demo down the line.
Awesome.
I don't see any other questions over on Slido or in YouTube,
except one was just some love
for the embedded Swagger interface in Connect.
And let me just double check one more time.
Does anybody else see anything I've missed?
Oh.
Oh, one question I think I maybe missed was
from Tim.
This is likely something we'll have to talk through
with our account rep,
but if we publish to Connect with no authentication needed,
is there a limit we'll run into from public users?
Yeah, great question for your account rep.
But if you have content and that's an API,
could be a Shiny app, could be whatever,
and it's set to anyone no login required,
essentially opened up to the world,
then there is no limit, really,
in terms of who can access that,
in terms of anonymous viewers.
There are some things to consider
for concurrent users as well,
and that's gonna be a conversation you wanna have
with your account rep.
But if things are opened up to the world,
anyone can use these.
Awesome.
Well, thank you all so much for joining us today.
I wanted to share just a few resources
that we've shared with you.
So if you want to go to this link shown on the screen,
pos.it slash demo resources,
you can learn more about the products that we covered today.
But if there is something like Tim just mentioned
that you wanna talk with your account rep about,
or you have questions for us
that you'd rather discuss one-on-one,
you can use this link, pos.it slash chat with us
to schedule some time to talk with someone
from our team.
Or if you are just curious
if your team is already using our tools,
I love being able to connect teams
within organizations as well,
so I'd love to chat with you.
But thank you all so much for joining us today.
As a reminder, these end-to-end workflow demos
happened the last Wednesday of every month
at 11 Eastern time.
So as Ryan said in the beginning,
if you enjoyed the workflow
and would like to share it with your colleagues
or your friends, we would love that too.
And again, if you have any ideas for workflows
or things you'd like to see, let us know as well.
You can also just put that in the YouTube comments too,
even with the recording.
So this recording will be made available immediately
as well as the blog post that just went live,
so you can go jump in and follow along
and use this in your own environment too.
Thank you, Ryan, Katie, and Ralph.
Anything to add?
Awesome.
Well, have a great rest of the day, everybody.
Thanks all.
Bye.
Thanks everybody.